---
sidebar_position: 0
---

# Gradient-Guided Diffusion-Based Restoration of Extremely Compressed Backgrounds for Video Coding for Machines

###### *2026/03/12: Currently in the publishing process.*

## 1. Motivations
- VCM was initially developed for machine vision, scalable coding frameworks have been developed to support both machine-driven analysis and human viewing as required.

- With decoder: severely degraded BG quality in reconstructed frames makes them unsuitable for viewing;therefore, restoring the degraded BGs by leveraging high-quality ROIs is essential.

- The primary challenge:  restoring the plausibility of the BGs, degraded by aggressive compression.

- Existing solutions:

    (i) Compression artifact removal: restore entire images degraded by compression artifacts.
    
    - Weeknesses: they may exhibit suboptimal performance in our scenario as they do not effectively account for the semantic disparity between ROIs and BGs, which have different quality levels within the image.
    
    (ii) Image inpainting/outpainting: treat the BG as an invalid or missing region, and use valid ROIs as guidance for generating plausible BG content.
        
    - Weeknesses: relies on local or global image features and often fails to fully capture complex semantic relationships between ROIs and BGs, resulting in inconsistent reconstructions.

    (iii) Generation-guided image restoration.

## 2. Contributions
### 2.1. Encoder
- Focus on scenarios where high-quality encoding of regions of interest (ROIs) for machine vision and low-bitrate encoding of the background (BG) for human vision.

### 2.2. Decoder
- Propose the Gradient-Guided Diffusion Restoration (GGDR):

    + Integrates a pretrained generative diffusion model with content-aware supervision.

- Adaptive refinement mechanisms to restore severely degraded regions robustly while maintaining visual consistency across the entire frame.

<!-- - The GGDR algorithm consists of two key components: 
(i) a conten v -->