---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Infrared and Visible Image Fusion: From Data Compatibility to Task Adaption

    - 2026/03/12: Currently in the writing process.

## 1. Motivations
- The paper focus is on learning-based infrared and visible image fusion.

- Beside that, the survey also outlines taxonomies, popular datasets, existing challenges, and potential research directions.

## 2. Tasks
- Given a pair of infrared and visible image captured by different sensors. The goal of Infrared and Visible Image Fusion (IVIF) is to generate a signal image that has complementary and comprehensive information.

- Visible image: 

    + Generated when sensors utilize light reflecting off various scenes and objects.

    + Effectively presenting detailed texture information of the environment. 

    + Weaknesses: Easily afected by factors such as ambinet lighting, brightness, and adverse weather conditions.

- Infrared sensors image:

    + Through detecting thermal radiation, with accentuates overall contours of objects.

    + Potentially resulting in blurred features, low contrast, and diminished texture information.

- To capitalize on the strengths of both technologies:

    + A combination of infrared and visible imaging can be used to extract comprehensive information.
    
    + Thereby enhancing scene understanding.
    
    + Maintain robust perception even in environments characterized by dynamic and harsh conditions.

- When applying IVIF to practical applications, two key factors should be carefully considered:

    - (i) : Most of existing approaches need pixel-level registered infrared and visible image pairs for fusion.

        - The significant differences in the view-point, pixel distribution, and resolutions of the infrared and visible sensors. => obtaining accurately registered data is extremely challenging.

    - (ii): A part of approaches focus on seeking visual enhancement methods while ignore to boost the performance of the follow-up high-level vision tasks, e.g., object detection, depth estimation, and semantic segmentation.

    - (i) and (ii). The generated fused images are difficult to be directly applied in intelligence systems with perception requirements. 

## 2. Contributions
### 1. Auto encoder-based approaches

#### 1.1. Overview

- Consists of two main steps:

    ##### (1). Pre-training the autoencoder
    - An autoencoder is pre-trained using visible and/or infrared images.

        + The encoder will be trained to extract and represent the original image features.
        
        + The decoder will be trained to learn and reconstruct the original image on extracted image from encoder output.

    ##### (2). Testing the full pipeline
    - First, using the trained encoder to extract **(i). the visible image feature** AND **(ii). infrared image features.**

    - Next, fuse both the extracted visible image features with the extracted infrared image features. Generally, there are several fusion methods, but two direction that attracted the most attention was:
        
        + Manual fusion rules,
        
        + Learn through a second training step using several visible-infrared image pairs.

#### 1.2. Categories of AE methods
    - Existing AE methods can be classified into two categories:
    
        (i). Enhancements in fusion rules and data integration.
        
        - Aimed at improving multi-modality feature synthesis.
        
        - Example for Fusion rules:
            
            - DenseFuse: introduces two core approaches:
            
                - An addition strategy for combining encoder-generated future maps,
                - An l1−norm based strategy using softmax to select prominent features.

            - NestFuse (Li et al. [20]): innovate by merging a nested connection network with spatial/ channel attention models for infrared-visible image fusion.
                
                - Further enhance feature integration and emphasize crucial information.
                
                - Highlights spatial and channel importance visa attention models, enhancing multi-scale deep feature fusion and surpassing other methods in objective and subjective evaluations.

        (ii). Innovation in network architecture, which include new layer introductions and connection modifications.

        - Example of Network architecture:
            - RFN-Nest: introduces a Residual Fusion Network (RFN):

                - Enhancement of deep feature-based image fusion, focusing particularly on the sophistication of network design to preserve intricate details.
                
            - Liuetal.[22]: Propose the innovative network structure that incorporates multi-scale feature learning and an edge guided   



 
